Add details (#1)
kkohbrok/mimi-metadata-minimalization: draft-kohbrok-mimi-metadata-minimalization.md

# Pseudonymization

The main mechanism to hide the user and client identifiers from the hub and

> providers in the context of individual groups and use user- and client-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
providers in the context of individual groups and use user-level and client-level
```

pseudonyms instead.

> The main purpose of the pseudonymization scheme described in this document is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the pseudonymization scheme described in this document is to
```

hide metadata from service providers with as little impact as possible on the

> features provided by the base MIMI protocol. In particular, this means that by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features provided by the base MIMI protocol. This means that by
```

default, User and client identifiers are still visible to (other) users and
their clients.

> However, the pseudonymization scheme can also be used to hide a user's identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the pseudonymization scheme can also be used to hide a user's identity
```

from other users. See Section {{user-to-user-pseudonymity}} for more details.

# Pseudonymity through credential encryption

To hide their identities from providers, clients use PseudonymousCredentials to

> represent them in MIMI rooms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients use PseudonymousCredentials to represent them in MIMI rooms to hide their 
identities from providers
```

~~~ tls
struct {
  IdentifierUri client_pseudonym;
  IdentifierUri user_pseudonym;
  opaque signature_public_key;
  opaque identity_link_ciphertext<V>;
} PseudonymousCredential
~~~

> As the name suggests, PseudonymousCredentials don't contain a client's client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PseudonymousCredentials don't contain a client's client
```

and user ID. Instead, they use two pseudonyms: a user pseudonym (shared by all
other PseudonymousCredentials of the user's clients in a given room) and a

> client pseudonym (unique for each PseudonymousCredential). Each pseudonym is an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and user ID. Instead, they use two pseudonyms: a user pseudonym shared by all
other PseudonymousCredentials of the user's clients in a given room and a
client pseudonym unique for each PseudonymousCredential. Each pseudonym is an
```

IdentifierUri made up of a randomly generated UUID and the user's provider's
domain.

~~~ tls
struct {
  IdentifierUri client_pseudonym;
  IdentifierUri user_pseudonym;
  opaque signature_public_key;
} PseudonymousCredentialTBS

struct {
  /* SignWithLabel(., "PseudonymousCredentialTBS",
    PseudonymousCredentialTBS) */
  opaque pseudonymous_credential_signature<V>;
  Credential client_credential;
} IdentityLinkTBE
~~~

The `identity_link_ciphertext` is created by encrypting the IdentityLinkTBE,
which contains the client's real credential, as well as a signature over the
PseudonymousCredentialTBS using the client credential's signature key.

> The identity link key used for encryption is unique per pseudonymous credential. It is derived from the client's connection key.

Reviewer: It improves clarity when you repeat the name of keys in prose by using the identifier name.

```suggestion
The identity link key `identity_link_key` used for encryption is unique per pseudonymous credential. It is derived from the client's connection key `connection_key`.
```

Author: I generally agree. However, in this case I'd advocate for using either the name or the identifier since they're pretty much the same.

On a slightly different note, having an "identifier" maybe isn't great in the first place, since it's easily confused with a field name of a struct.

~~~ tls
identity_link_key = ExpandWithLabel(connection_key,
  "IdentityLinkKey", PseudonymousCredentialTBS, KDF.Nh)
~~~

See {{connections}} for more details on the connection key.

> The fact that the identity link key is unique per pseudonymous credential along
> with the fact that pseudonymous credentials are used in only once (i.e. in one
> room) allows managing the capability to de-pseudonymize a client on a per-room
> level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pseudonyms are specific to each room and client since the identity link key is unique per pseudonymous credential and pseudonymous credentials are used in only once (i.e. in one
room).
```

# Identity link key management in rooms

> Except in the cases detailed in {{user-to-user-pseudonymity}}, all clients in a
> room MUST be able to decrypt the identity link ciphertext of all other clients
> in the room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All clients in a room MUST be able to decrypt the identity link ciphertext of all other clients
in the room, except in the cases detailed in {{user-to-user-pseudonymity}}.
```

TODO: The following scheme should be replaced by TreeWrap for FS and PCS. It's a
simple placeholder for now.

> To achieve this, the hub holds encrypted copies of the identity link keys of all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hub holds encrypted copies of the identity link keys of all
```

clients in the room and updates them as clients get added, removed and updated.
The identity link keys are encrypted with the room's identity link wrapper key.

The identity link wrapper key is freshly generated by the room's creator and
does not change throughout the lifetime of the group.

The identity link wrapper key is distributed to new participants as they join

> the room.

Reviewer: Using the identifier names of keys in this paragraph would make things more clear

Author: Again, if they're exactly the same I don't think it makes much of a difference. In the case of the "identity link wapper key" we haven't even defined an identifier to use.

## Add flow

If a group member adds a new user, the adder MUST include a
IdentityLinkExtension in the Welcome's GroupInfoExtensions.

~~~ tls
struct {
  opaque identity_link_wrapper_key<V>;
} IdentityLinkExtension
~~~

The adder MUST also include the encrypted identity link key of all added users
in the AAD of the commit message. The order of the encrypted identity link keys
in the AAD MUST match the order of the Add proposals in the Commit message.

Note that this requires the adder to have a connection with each added user as
specified in {{connections}}.

TODO: Note here that the sender MUST use the SafeAAD as defined in the extension
doc.

~~~ tls
struct {
  opaque encrypted_identity_link_keys<V>;
} AddAAD
~~~

Existing group members can then decrypt the identity link keys to learn the
real identities of the added users.

> The hub, receiving the commit message, adds the encrypted identity link keys to
> the room's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it receoves a Commit message, the hub adds the encrypted identity link keys to
the room's state.
```

responding user Bob.

At the time of registration with their local provider, Alice and Bob generate an
HPKE keypair and upload the public key (called the connection establishment public key) to their respective providers. The providers make the keys
available to all other users without requiring authentication.

To hide Alice's identity from Bob's provider throughout the connection
establishment process, Alice obtains Bob's connection establishment public key
from Bob's provider.

Alice now creates a new conversation with her local provider as hub and adds
all of her clients to that conversation. She then compiles the following
information into a connection request:

~~~ tls
struct {
  Credential requester_client_credential;
  opaque connection_room_id<V>;
  opaque connection_room_identity_link_wrapper_key<V>;
  opaque requester_connection_key<V>;
  opaque connection_response_key<V>;
} ConnectionRequest
~~~

The `connection_response_key` is a fresh HPKE keypair that Alice generates when
she creates the connection request. It is later used by Bob to encrypt his own
connection key if Bob chooses to accept the request.

> TODO: The request will likely contain more information s.t. an authorization
> token that allows Bob to fetch Alice's KeyPackages, etc. If we want to include
> more information here, it should also be included in the ConnectionResponse
> below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TODO: The request will likely contain more information such as e.g. an authorization
token that allows Bob to fetch Alice's KeyPackages. Any such information must also 
be included in the ConnectionResponse below.
```

Alice then encrypts the connection request using Bob's connection establishment
public key and sends it to Bob's provider.

Bob fetches the connection request from his provider and decrypts it using his connection establishment key.

He can inspect Alice's `requester_client_credential` and decide whether to
accept the request.

If Bob accepts, he creates a connection response:

~~~ tls
struct {
  opaque responder_connection_key<V>;
} ConnectionResponse
~~~

Bob then follows the join flow for the room with the `connection_room_id`,
including the ConnectionResponse encrypted under the `connection_response_key`
in the join message's (i.e. the external commit's) AAD. As part of that
process, he obtains the encrypted identity link keys for Alice's clients and
verifies that they belong to the same user as the `requester_client_credential`
in the connection request.

> Alice sees that Bob has accepted her connection request by joining the room and

Reviewer: What does "sees" mean? Is it Alice the user or Alice the client?

Author: The event is detected by Alice the client and can be communicated to Alice the user. I'll clarify.

can decrypt Bob's ConnectionResponse using the connection response key she
initially included in the connection request.

Both Alice and Bob now share a room and can derive identity link keys for each
other's clients, which in turn allows them to add each other to rooms.

# User-to-user pseudonymity

In some cases, users may want to communicate with each other without revealing
their real identities to one-another. Room policy can thus specify the extent
to which clients are required to provide identity link keys. For example,
identity link keys might not be allowed at all, or only admins are required to
provide identity link keys.

# KeyPackages

The use of user and client pseudonyms requires some additional care when
generating and uploading KeyPackages.

> The user and a client pseudonyms in the PseudonymousCredential must be unique

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user and client pseudonyms in the PseudonymousCredential must be unique
```
